# pre-signed URL in S3
## What is it?
- Grant time-limited access without updating bucket policy

## Usage
- Download or upload an object without 

## Expiration time
- 1 min to 12 hours from S3 console
- Up to 7 days from AWS CLI or AWS SKDs
- If you created a presigned URL by using a temporary token, then the URL expires when the token expires

## Note
> Amazon S3 checks the expiration date and time of a signed URL **at the time of the HTTP request**. For example, if a client begins to **download** a large file immediately **before the expiration time**, the **download continues** even if the **expiration time passes** during the download. However, if the connection drops and the client tries to restart the download after the expiration time passes, the download fails.

## Capabilities
The capabilities of a presigned URL are **limited by** the permissions of the **user who created it**. In essence, presigned URLs are bearer tokens that grant access to those who possess them. As such, we recommend that you protect them appropriately. The following are some methods that you can use to restrict the use of your presigned URLs.

## AWS Signature Version 4 (SigV4)
To enforce specific behavior when presigned URL requests are authenticated by using AWS Signature Version 4 (SigV4), you can use condition keys in bucket policies and access point policies. For example, the following bucket policy uses the `s3:signatureAge` condition to deny any Amazon S3 presigned URL request on objects in the `amzn-s3-demo-bucket` bucket if the signature is more than 10 minutes old. 

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Sid": "Deny a presigned URL request if the signature is more than 10 min old",
         "Effect": "Deny",
         "Principal": {"AWS":"*"},
         "Action": "s3:*",
         "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::amzn-s3-demo-bucket/*",
         "Condition": {
            "NumericGreaterThan": {
               "s3:signatureAge": 600000
            }
         }
      }
   ]
}
```

## Network path restriction
If you want to restrict the use of presigned URLs and all Amazon S3 access to particular network paths, you can write AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies. You can set these policies on the IAM principal that makes the call, the Amazon S3 bucket, or both.

A network-path restriction on the IAM principal requires the user of those credentials to make requests from the specified network. A restriction on the bucket or access point requires that all requests to that resource originate from the specified network. These restrictions also apply outside of the presigned URL scenario.

The IAM global condition key that you use depends on the type of endpoint. If you're using the **public endpoint** for Amazon S3, use `aws:SourceIp`. If you're using a **virtual private cloud (VPC)** endpoint to Amazon S3, use `aws:SourceVpc` or `aws:SourceVpce`.

The following IAM policy statement requires the principal to access AWS only from the specified network range. With this policy statement, all access must originate from that range. This includes the case of someone who's using a presigned URL for Amazon S3. To use this example, replace the user input placeholders with your own information.

```json
{
    "Sid": "NetworkRestrictionForIAMPrincipal",
    "Effect": "Deny",
    "Action": "*",
    "Resource": "*",
    "Condition": {
        "NotIpAddressIfExists": {"aws:SourceIp": "IP-address-range"},
        "BoolIfExists": {"aws:ViaAWSService": "false"}
    }
}
```

## How to

### CLI
```bash
aws s3 presign s3://amzn-s3-demo-bucket/mydoc.txt --expires-in 604800
```

For all AWS Regions launched **after March 20, 2019** you need to **specify** the **endpoint-url** and **AWS Region** with the request. For a list of all the Amazon S3 Regions and endpoints, see [Regions and Endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_region) in the AWS General Reference.

```bash
aws s3 presign s3://amzn-s3-demo-bucket/mydoc.txt --expires-in 604800 --region af-south-1 --endpoint-url https://s3.af-south-1.amazonaws.com # 
```

## Limitation
- Do NOT support the following data-integrity checksum algorithms when you upload objects. Provide MD5 digest of the object to verify.
  - CRC32
  - CRC32C
  - SHA-1
  - SHA-256
